## Metadata

- **Difficulty:** Apprentice
- **Category:** Access Control Vulnerabilities
- **Lab URL:** [Lab: User ID controlled by request parameter with password disclosure](https://portswigger.net/web-security/access-control/lab-user-id-controlled-by-request-parameter-with-password-disclosure)
- **Date Solved:** 22/4/2026
## Vulnerability Summary

The app uses users' username to identify users, allowing them to access their page using an URL like: `url/my-account?id=username`. However, the app does not implement any checks regarding the identity or permission of the user accessing another user's page, leading to a **Insecure Direct Object Reference** (IDOR) vulnerability which allows horizontal privilege escalation that results in vertical privilege escalation.
## Reconnaissance

Navigating to `url/login` and logging in with the credentials `wiener - peter` (provided by the lab), we are taken to the URL `url/my-account?id=wiener` which is our account page. Changing the value of the `id` field to `administrator`, we are able to access the administrator's account page as well, but without administrative privileges necessary to solve the lab (deletion of users). This suggests we need to find the password for this `administrator` account, and can leverage horizontal privilege escalation to turn it into vertical privilege escalation. 
## Exploitation Steps

1. Navigate to`url/login` and log in with the credentials `wiener - peter`.
2. After you're logged in, click on the "My account" button located at the top right side under the page header to be taken into `url/my-account?id=wiener`. Intercept this request with Burp Suite proxy.
3. Modify the `id` field's value from `wiener` to `administrator`, then send the request. Inspecting the HTTP response. we see a status code of `200 OK`, with a response message that reads `Your username is: administrator` and 
```
<input required type="hidden" name="csrf" value=
"csrftokenstring">
<input required type=password name=password value=
'adminpassword'/>
```
(`adminpassword` is a value randomly generated by the lab that differs session to session).
4. Copy this password, then log in with username `administrator` on the website. You should be taken to the administrator's account page, this time with an additional tab called "Admin panel". Click on this, and there will be an option to delete users `carlos` and `wiener`. Click on the "delete" button on the right to `carlos`, and you should get a response that reads `User deleted successfully!`. Lab is solved.
## Payload Used

`id=administrator`.
Modifying the `id` field value to another user grants partial access to that user even if their login credentials are unknown. This partial access is enough to help us gain the password of that user (in this case the `administrator`), allowing full access of their account.
## Root Cause

The app uses username as identifiers to verify users. However, it implicitly trusts client-side provided state without server-side validation or cryptographic integrity, thus allowing us to access other users' account page simply by modifying the value of the `id` field. In this account page, the password to the account is disclosed in the HTTP response, granting us full access to the account.
## Remediation

- When rendering the "My Account" page or returning sensitive data, the application should drop the `id` parameter entirely from the request. Instead, it should extract the user's identity directly from the authenticated session object (e.g., the server-side session store mapped to the user's session cookie) and fetch the corresponding data.
- If passing the user username via a parameter is strictly required by the application's architecture, the backend must explicitly verify authorization before returning data. The server must check if the username of the currently authenticated user (derived from their session token) matches the username supplied in the request parameter. If they do not match, the application must return an `HTTP 403 Forbidden` or `HTTP 401 Unauthorized` response.